The Purdue Department of Electrical Engineering was established in
1888, and has since grown into the School of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, with over 80 faculty members, over 850 undergraduate
students and over 650 graduate students. ECE at Purdue is one of the
largest schools in the United States, and is consistently ranked as a
top-ten program nationwide.

The  school  offers  two  undergraduate  degree programs,  the  BS  in
Electrical Engineering and the BS in Computer Engineering. The faculty
is organized  into nine  research areas that  cover the gamut  of ECE:
Automatic  Control   (AC),  Biomedical  Imaging   and  Sensing  (BIS),
Communications,  Networking,   Signal  &  Image   Processing  (CNSIP),
Computer Engineering (CE), Education (E), Power and Energy Devices and
Systems   (PEDS),  Fields  and   Optics  (FO),   Microelectronics  and
Nanotechnology  (MN) and  VLSI  and Circuit  Design  (VC). The  school
boasts a thriving graduate program, awarding about 60 PhD degrees each
year.

Drivers of Change Affecting our Future

With enormous changes on the horizon, we are in the midst of a
defining moment for the profession of electrical and computer
engineering.  Electrical and computer engineering is transforming into
a trans-disciplinary, global enterprise. The most significant advances
are occurring when ideas from multiple disciplines are inter-woven to
create imaginative solutions to compelling and urgent
problems. Indeed, electrical and computer engineering fosters many
emerging multidisciplinary areas involving energy, environment,
information technology, nanotechnology, healthcare, entertainment and
communication, and security. This multidisciplinary nature provides
great opportunities as well as challenges to address the grandest
challenges facing the State of Indiana, the country, and the world.
