Undergraduate Program

Electrical and Computer engineering encompasses all areas of research,
development, design, and operation of electrical and electronic
systems and their components, including software. Specialization in
such varied areas as bioengineering, circuit theory, communication
sciences, computers and automata, control systems, electromagnetic
fields, energy sources and systems, and materials and electronic
devices is available. Two degree programs are offered by the School:
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (BSEE) and Bachelor of
Science in Computer Engineering (BSCmpE).

Engineers in both programs must have a strong background in
mathematics and physics, a broad base in the humanities, and a command
of the English language to provide the breadth essential for optimum
professional growth. The curriculum offered by the School of
Electrical and Computer Engineering meets these objectives.

Graduates from the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering are
sought by all major industries. Electrical engineers hold many unusual
and challenging positions in the aerospace, chemical, nuclear,
automotive, medical, metallurgical, textile, railway, petroleum, and
other basically nonelectrical industries, as well as in computers,
electronics, communications, power, and other electrical
industries. Their activities span industrial activity, research,
development, design, production, marketing, operation, field test, and
maintenance of many types of equipment for government, industry, farm,
and home.

Both the electrical engineering and computer engineering programs are
ABET accredited.